htsim/README.md, before:

# htsim Network Simulator

htsim is a high performance discrete event simulator, inspired by ns2, but much faster, primarily intended to examine congestion control algorithm behaviour.  It was originally written by [Mark Handley](http://www0.cs.ucl.ac.uk/staff/M.Handley/) to allow [Damon Wishik](https://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~djw1005/) to examine TCP stability issues when large numbers of flows are multiplexed.  It was extended by [Costin Raiciu](http://nets.cs.pub.ro/~costin/) to examine [Multipath TCP performance](http://nets.cs.pub.ro/~costin/files/mptcp-nsdi.pdf) during the MPTCP standardization process, and models of datacentre networks were added to [examine multipath transport](http://nets.cs.pub.ro/~costin/files/mptcp_dc_sigcomm.pdf) in a variety of datacentre topologies.  [NDP](http://nets.cs.pub.ro/~costin/files/ndp.pdf) was developed using htsim, and simple models of DCTCP, DCQCN were added for comparison.  Later htsim was adopted by Correct Networks (now part of Broadcom) to develop [EQDS](http://nets.cs.pub.ro/~costin/files/eqds.pdf), and switch models were improved to allow a variety of forwarding methods.  Support for a simple RoCE model, PFC, Swift and HPCC were added.

## Getting Started

There are some limited instructions in the [wiki](https://github.com/Broadcom/csg-htsim/wiki).  

htsim is written in C++, and has no major dependencies.  It should compile and run with g++ or clang on MacOS or Linux.  To compile htsim, cd into the sim directory and run make.

To get started with running experiments, take a look in the experiments directory where there are some examples.  These examples generally require bash, python3 and gnuplot.

## Getting Started
Install the Python requirements by running:
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Then compile the project from the ```sim/``` folder by running
```
make all -j 4
```
Consider changing the ```-j``` parameter. 

## Run Validation
From the ```sim/datacenter/validation``` folder, run:
```
python validate_all.py --config_json_file example_validate.json > out.txt
```
Consider modifying the JSON file for more details (more instructions coming soon).

The results will be saved in ```sim/datacenter/validation/experiments```. There each folder will contain a summary plot and a ```tmp``` folder where more details are stored.

Note that running this can take long time depending on the chosen config.

## Future Work
The ```validate_all.py``` will be improved to support more combination of runs and more metrics.

Commit message:

Add CMake configuration for htsim executables instead of Makefiles and update README instructions

htsim/README.md, after:

# htsim Network Simulator

htsim is a high performance discrete event simulator, inspired by ns2, but much faster, primarily intended to examine congestion control algorithm behaviour.  It was originally written by [Mark Handley](http://www0.cs.ucl.ac.uk/staff/M.Handley/) to allow [Damon Wishik](https://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~djw1005/) to examine TCP stability issues when large numbers of flows are multiplexed.  It was extended by [Costin Raiciu](http://nets.cs.pub.ro/~costin/) to examine [Multipath TCP performance](http://nets.cs.pub.ro/~costin/files/mptcp-nsdi.pdf) during the MPTCP standardization process, and models of datacentre networks were added to [examine multipath transport](http://nets.cs.pub.ro/~costin/files/mptcp_dc_sigcomm.pdf) in a variety of datacentre topologies.  [NDP](http://nets.cs.pub.ro/~costin/files/ndp.pdf) was developed using htsim, and simple models of DCTCP, DCQCN were added for comparison.  Later htsim was adopted by Correct Networks (now part of Broadcom) to develop [EQDS](http://nets.cs.pub.ro/~costin/files/eqds.pdf), and switch models were improved to allow a variety of forwarding methods.  Support for a simple RoCE model, PFC, Swift and HPCC were added.

## Getting Started

There are some limited instructions in the [wiki](https://github.com/Broadcom/csg-htsim/wiki).  

htsim is written in C++, and has no major dependencies.  It should compile and run with g++ or clang on MacOS or Linux.  To compile htsim, cd into the sim directory and run cmake.

To get started with running experiments, take a look in the experiments directory where there are some examples.  These examples generally require bash, python3 and gnuplot.

## Building the project

Install the Python requirements by running:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Then compile the project from the ```sim/``` folder by running

```bash
cmake -S . -B build # To configure the cmake project
cmake --build build -j4 # To build the project
```

Consider changing the ```-j``` parameter.

## Run Validation

From the ```sim/datacenter/validation``` folder, run:

```bash
python validate_all.py --config_json_file example_validate.json > out.txt
```

Consider modifying the JSON file for more details (more instructions coming soon).

The results will be saved in ```sim/datacenter/validation/experiments```. There each folder will contain a summary plot and a ```tmp``` folder where more details are stored.

Note that running this can take long time depending on the chosen config.

## Future Work

The ```validate_all.py``` will be improved to support more combination of runs and more metrics.
